# Notes from chat with Chris

Alex.

Using lights and buttons for game state and interaction

Chris.

In our presentation, we need to emphasise interaction as part of the user
experience more than we talk about user experience itself. This is a DECO
course. Talking about how we interact with technology is what marks get assigned
for in the presentation, not for talking about the game or the rules. The game
is almost completely auxilliary for the purposes of the presentation.

We need to read the rubric. Explaining the rules could take up more time than it
is worth, so it would probably be best to explain the rules through the lense of
interactive design. We should say that that our product is about combining
digital and physical elements using (...) in a hidden information game. Then we
can show evidence of design progression.

The focus of the presentation NEEDS to be the technology and iteraction design
and how that meets the brief. LEAD WITH THIS. Be very careful not to make the
focus of the presentation on the game.

It needs to be clear that we are taking design iteration seriously. We have
evidence that we have been doing this already, and need to make it clear how we
plan to continue doing this.

Ethics and data privacy criteria. We MUST include this. Something we could talk
about for ethics is talking about accessibility. Consider fonts, colours,
iconography, spatial as well as colour recognition, text-to-speech with audio
output, etc. Accounting for younger players and people with lower levels of
literacy is also important. (IBM color palettes
https://www.ibm.com/design/language/color/)

Jargon phrases:

- "omitting user groups"
- "accessability-first design"

We need to talk about interaction and accessiblity BEFORE we talk about any tech
stuff

Once we have a proof-of-concept for technology, we can probably go ahead and buy
the parts we'll need.

For the presentation, we can pretty well turn all of the sentences in the high
distinction band into check-boxes, then just check them off.

Top Tips from Chris:

- Don't put too much stuff in the presentation
- The audience cannot listen to us speaking AND read the text on the slides at
  the same time
- Make the slides look 'nice enough'

We should have the success criteria and must-haves on a slide and go through
them. We can speak at the end about our ongoing design work.

We should have 1 or 2 people giving the presentation. However, in Q&A, we all
need to be prepared to answer a question.
